Text description of information managed in the domain

We focus on the domain of commercial banking, where the core business comprises the provision of various types of accounts to facilitate investment and enable credit through loans. A commercial bank profits from this business by managing risk towards maintaining a competitive net interest rate spread. Roughly speaking, the net interest rate spread refers to the difference between interest rates earned in loans and interest rates paid in investments. 

The business of commercial banking requires the management of a variety of pieces of information. The main roles of people in this domain are bank employees and customers. Bank employees are often specialized in certain products (e.g., only certain kinds of investments or of loans); however, as a simplification, we consider employees that can service customers in the full range of financial products offered by the bank. The latter employees are typically account managers, who may act together with other more specialized employees to manage several customer accounts. For every employee, the information system needs to record the employee's name, ID, and password. 

A customer may own many different accounts in the bank. For simplicity, we assume the bank restricts accounts to be owned by exactly one customer, i.e., we do not consider joint accounts in our domain. For every customer, the information system needs to record name, CPR number, password, and address. The bank also wishes to evaluate the reputation of a customer, which is important for risk management. So each customer is also given a risk type classification (e.g., low risk, medium risk, high risk, very high risk).

There are three types of accounts, namely investment accounts, checking accounts, and loan accounts. For all of these accounts, the information system needs to record their creation date and account number. In addition, money can be moved between accounts by customers or employees. For each transfer, the transfer date, ID, and amount need to be recorded. Transfers between accounts are operations in which money neither enters nor leaves the bank. For these kinds of operations, the person performing the operation does not need to be registered as a simplification.

The only operations where there is external flow of money are withdrawals and deposits. These operations can only be performed against checking accounts by the customer owning the account. It is necessary to record the date and the amount of both withdrawals and deposits. 

For investment accounts, employees are allowed to buy certificates of deposit (CD) on behalf of a customer. There are two kinds of certificates of deposit available. Investment accounts can buy fixed-rate certificates of deposit, which will pay customers the entire invested amount back in addition to interest when the CD matures. There is also another type of CD called a variable-rate certificate of deposit. The difference is that a fixed-rate CD has a determined interest rate from the start, while a variable-rate CD has a flexible interest calculated on the basis of a market index (e.g. tied to LIBOR https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Libor). For each certificate of deposit, it is important to record its start date, CD number, amount, and maturity date.

For loan accounts, employees can acquire loans for their customers. Here, it is required that we record the start date and the maturity date of each loan as well as the loan number and amount. Moreover, loans are similar to fixed-rate investment products in that they have an interest rate determined at the start. The customer needs to pay by maturity the loan amount plus interest. However, the customer can make payments for a given loan at different dates, either to reduce future debt or compensate in case of being late on the loan. The loan payment includes the payment number, date, and amount. The total amount across several payments that a customer ends up paying in a loan is flexible and subject to many factors (delinquency, legal action, etc). For simplicity, the information system only needs to record the payments actually made.
